# Project Introduction
A music streaming startup, __Sparkify__, has grown its user base and song database even more and wants to move its data warehouse to a data lake. Their data resides in S3, in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.

I am tasked with building an ETL pipeline that extracts their data from S3, processes them using Spark, and loads the data back into S3 as a set of dimensional tables. This will allow their analytics team to continue finding insights about what songs their users are listening to.

I'll be able to test my database and ETL pipeline by running queries given to you by the analytics team from Sparkify and compare your results with their expected results.

### Song Dataset
The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are file paths to two files in this dataset.

#### Example of song data files
        `song_data/A/B/C/TRABCEI128F424C983.json`
        `song_data/A/A/B/TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json`

And below is an example of what a single song file, TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json, looks like.

`{"num_songs": 1, "artist_id": "ARJIE2Y1187B994AB7", "artist_latitude": null, "artist_longitude": null, "artist_location": "", "artist_name": "Line Renaud", "song_id": "SOUPIRU12A6D4FA1E1", "title": "Der Kleine Dompfaff", "duration": 152.92036, "year": 0}`


### Log Dataset
The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate activity logs from a music streaming app based on specified configurations.
The log files in the dataset you'll be working with are partitioned by year and month.

#### Example of log data files
        `log_data/2018/11/2018-11-12-events.json
         log_data/2018/11/2018-11-13-events.json`